config/README.md, before:

# How to write your own Migration Mapping

Migration mapping is a dict of specifications for each pipeline. Each specification consist of source, destination and data_properties. Each specification is structured in following format:
```
{
    "job_1_unique_id": pipeline_format_1,
    "job_2_unique_id": pipeline_format_2,
    .
    .
    .
    "job_n_unique_id": pipeline_format_n
    "fastapi_server": True (Bool, Optional, Default=False)
}
```

Note:
1. No need to change the encryption_store variable
2. No need to remove any imported libraries
3. Unique_id can't be "fastapi_server". It is a reserved keyword.

## Specifying pipeline_format
pipeline_format is a dictionary with following properties:
1. source
2. destination
3. tables, or collections or api as per source['source_type'] (Data structuring)

### Source
```
'source': {
    'source_type': 'mongo' or 'mysql' or 'api',
    'url': '' (the url to connect to the data source)
    'db_name': '' (name of dabatase for mongoDB and SQL sources),
    'username': '' (Optional),
    'password': '' (Optional)
},
```

### Destination
```
'destination': {
    'destination_type': 's3' or 'redshift',
    'host': '',
    'database': '',
    'user': '',
    'password': '',
    's3_bucket_name': '',
    'schema': ''
},
```

1. destination_type : str, required, 's3' or 'redshift'
2. host : str, connection endpoint with destination, example - 'examplecluster.abc123xyz789.us-west-1.redshift.amazonaws.com' for Redshift connection
3. database : str, database name for destination
4. user : str, username to access destination storage
5. password : str, password corresponding to user to access destination storage
6. s3_bucket_name : str, name of the s3 bucket
7. schema : str, name of the schema to upload the data to

### Data structuring (tables or collections or apis)
If source is SQL, we need to provide a field ```tables```, which is a list of table_specifications. Table_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'table_name': str,
    'bookmark_creation': False or 'field_name' (optional, Default=False, for example - 'created_at'),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, Default=False, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'primary_keys': string or list of unique specifiers for records (Optional),
    'exclude_tables': [] (List[str] or str, list of table names to exclude from entire database),
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the column (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 3),
    'is_dump': False (Optional, Default=False, Refer Notes 4)
}
```

If source is MongoDB, we need to provide a field ```collections```, which is a list of collection_specifications. Collection_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'collection_name': '',
    'fields': {
        'field_1': 'int' (Refer Notes 2),
        'field_2': 'complex', 
        ...
    } (Optional),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'archive': "Mongodb_query" or False,
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the field (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 3),
    'is_dump': False,
    'expiry': {'days': 30, 'hours': 5} (dict, Optional, used only when is_dump = True)
}
```

If source is API, we need to provide a field ```apis```, which is a list of api_specifications. 
Api_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'api_name': '',
    'fields': {
        'field_1': 'int' (Refer Notes 3),
        'field_2': 'complex', 
        ...
    } (Optional),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the field (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 4),
    'is_dump': False,
    'expiry': {'days': 30, 'hours': 5} (dict[str, int], Optional, used only when is_dump = True)
}
```

## fastapi_server
(Bool): default = False. If user sets 'fastapi_server' to True, a uvicorn server is started.

# Notes

## 1. Writing Cron Expressions
Writing Cron expression as per guidelines at [APScheduler docs](https://apscheduler.readthedocs.io/en/v2.1.0/cronschedule.html). Format (year, month, day, week, day_of_week, hour, minute, second)

For example: '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' represents every minute between 7AM to 7PM.

## 2. Specifying data types in MongoDB fields
Only specify if the field belongs to one of the following category:
1. 'bool'
2. 'float'
3. 'complex'
4. 'int'
5. 'datetime'

Other standard types are taken care of. Lists and dictionaries are stringified. If not specified, all types are by default converted to string. By default, datetime is converted to strings in MongoDB processing.

## 3. Partition Columns formats

'int' or 'str' (Default) or 'datetime', or list of these formats for different columns.

## 4. Data Dumping

True or False. If set to true, it adds a column 'migration_snapshot_date' to data, which stores the datetime of migration. Without updation checks, it simply dumps the data into destination. If set to true, one can also partition data based on 'migration_snapshot_date'.


## Notes:
1. If fastapi server is started, then data can migrated on scheduled basis, as well as immediate basis (i.e., migrating data just once).
2. If fastapi server is not started, then data can only be migrated on immediate basis (i.e., migrating data just once). To run scheduled jobs in such cases, an external scheduler is required.
3. In case of sql, we can migrate all tables of database by passing 'table_name' as '*'. We can also add a list of tables to exclude them in such cases.

Commit message:

Corrected overall datetime conversion, added typecasting in postgresql dataframes before saving, added timezone field functionality in mapping, defaulting to 'Asia/Kolkata'

config/README.md, after:

# How to write your own Migration Mapping

Migration mapping is a dict of specifications for each pipeline. Each specification consist of source, destination and data_properties. Each specification is structured in following format:
```
{
    "job_1_unique_id": pipeline_format_1,
    "job_2_unique_id": pipeline_format_2,
    .
    .
    .
    "job_n_unique_id": pipeline_format_n
    "fastapi_server": True (Bool, Optional, Default=False)
}
```

Note:
1. No need to change the encryption_store variable
2. No need to remove any imported libraries
3. Unique_id can't be "fastapi_server". It is a reserved keyword.

## Specifying pipeline_format
pipeline_format is a dictionary with following properties:
1. source
2. destination
3. tables, or collections or api as per source['source_type'] (Data structuring)
4. timezone

### Source
```
'source': {
    'source_type': 'mongo' or 'mysql' or 'api',
    'url': '' (the url to connect to the data source)
    'db_name': '' (name of dabatase for mongoDB and SQL sources),
    'username': '' (Optional),
    'password': '' (Optional)
},
```

### Destination
```
'destination': {
    'destination_type': 's3' or 'redshift',
    'host': '',
    'database': '',
    'user': '',
    'password': '',
    's3_bucket_name': '',
    'schema': ''
},
```

1. destination_type : str, required, 's3' or 'redshift'
2. host : str, connection endpoint with destination, example - 'examplecluster.abc123xyz789.us-west-1.redshift.amazonaws.com' for Redshift connection
3. database : str, database name for destination
4. user : str, username to access destination storage
5. password : str, password corresponding to user to access destination storage
6. s3_bucket_name : str, name of the s3 bucket
7. schema : str, name of the schema to upload the data to

### Data structuring (tables or collections or apis)
If source is SQL, we need to provide a field ```tables```, which is a list of table_specifications. Table_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'table_name': str,
    'bookmark_creation': False or 'field_name' (optional, Default=False, for example - 'created_at'),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, Default=False, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'primary_keys': string or list of unique specifiers for records (Optional),
    'exclude_tables': [] (List[str] or str, list of table names to exclude from entire database),
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the column (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 3),
    'is_dump': False (Optional, Default=False, Refer Notes 4)
}
```

If source is MongoDB, we need to provide a field ```collections```, which is a list of collection_specifications. Collection_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'collection_name': '',
    'fields': {
        'field_1': 'int' (Refer Notes 2),
        'field_2': 'complex', 
        ...
    } (Optional),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'archive': "Mongodb_query" or False,
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the field (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 3),
    'is_dump': False,
    'expiry': {'days': 30, 'hours': 5} (dict, Optional, used only when is_dump = True)
}
```

If source is API, we need to provide a field ```apis```, which is a list of api_specifications. 
Api_specifications shall be in following format:
```
{
    'api_name': '',
    'fields': {
        'field_1': 'int' (Refer Notes 3),
        'field_2': 'complex', 
        ...
    } (Optional),
    'bookmark': False or 'field_name' (optional, for example - 'updated_at'),
    'cron': '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' (Refer Notes 1),
    'to_partition': True or False (Default),
    'partition_col': False or '' name of the field (str or list of str),
    'partition_col_format': '' (Optional, Refer Notes 4),
    'is_dump': False,
    'expiry': {'days': 30, 'hours': 5} (dict[str, int], Optional, used only when is_dump = True)
}
```

## fastapi_server
(Bool): default = False. If user sets 'fastapi_server' to True, a uvicorn server is started.

## timezone
(Str): default = 'Asia/Kolkata'. Used for processing dates in given timezone, using last_run_cron_job, etc. For mongo as the source, this service saves dates in UTC timezone, and for sql as the source, this service saves dates without changing their timezone.

# Notes

## 1. Writing Cron Expressions
Writing Cron expression as per guidelines at [APScheduler docs](https://apscheduler.readthedocs.io/en/v2.1.0/cronschedule.html). Format (year, month, day, week, day_of_week, hour, minute, second)

For example: '* * * * * 7-19 */1 0' represents every minute between 7AM to 7PM.

## 2. Specifying data types in MongoDB fields
Only specify if the field belongs to one of the following category:
1. 'bool'
2. 'float'
3. 'complex'
4. 'int'
5. 'datetime'

Other standard types are taken care of. Lists and dictionaries are stringified. If not specified, all types are by default converted to string. By default, datetime is converted to strings in MongoDB processing.

## 3. Partition Columns formats

'int' or 'str' (Default) or 'datetime', or list of these formats for different columns.

## 4. Data Dumping

True or False. If set to true, it adds a column 'migration_snapshot_date' to data, which stores the datetime of migration. Without updation checks, it simply dumps the data into destination. If set to true, one can also partition data based on 'migration_snapshot_date'.


## Notes:
1. If fastapi server is started, then data can migrated on scheduled basis, as well as immediate basis (i.e., migrating data just once).
2. If fastapi server is not started, then data can only be migrated on immediate basis (i.e., migrating data just once). To run scheduled jobs in such cases, an external scheduler is required.
3. In case of sql, we can migrate all tables of database by passing 'table_name' as '*'. We can also add a list of tables to exclude them in such cases.
